Add documentation about API requests (#202)
GIScience/ohsome-quality-analyst: docs/api/api.md

# API

Please have a look at the documentation and examples of the interactive Swagger interface: [https://oqt.ohsome.org/api/docs](https://oqt.ohsome.org/api/docs)

## Request examples using Bash and CURL

Using the above mentioned Swagger interface one can create valid `curl` requests using an interactive interface.

In the following sections examples for a GET and POST request for an Indicator of a region pre-definied by OQT are given.

### Request an Indicator for a pre-definied region

#### GET request

```bash

> curl --request GET "https://oqt.ohsome.org/api/indicator?name=GhsPopComparisonBuildings&layerName=building_count&dataset=regions&featureId=3"

Author: Yes, I used some line breaks between GET and URL and in the URL itself. Its not very elegant but it works.

> curl --request GET "https://oqt.ohsome.org/api/indicator?name=GhsPopComparisonBuildings&layerName=building_count&dataset=regions&featureId=3"

Reviewer: I think if you do a linebreak, you should do an indention in the following lines. If that's not good, just stick with the one-liner.

> curl --request GET "https://oqt.ohsome.org/api/indicator?name=GhsPopComparisonBuildings&layerName=building_count&dataset=regions&featureId=3"

Author: Okay. Now only one linebreak with indention is used.

```

#### POST request

```bash
curl --request POST \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --data '{"name": "GhsPopComparisonBuildings", "layerName": "building_count", "dataset": "regions", "featureId": 3}' \

>     "https://oqt.ohsome.org/api/indicator"

Author: Introduced line breaks between elements of the JSON object.

```

> Tip: Use Python to pretty-print the response JSON -> `curl [...] | python -m json.tool`

### Request an Indicator for custom bounding polygon(s)

> Since GeoJSON strings are quite big it is recommended that POST requests are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since GeoJSON strings are quite big it is recommended to use POST requests.
```

#### POST request

> Let's write down the request parameters in a `JSON` file.
> Note that the bpolys parameters needs to be a valid GeoJSON object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's write down the request parameters in a `JSON` file.
Note that the bpolys parameter needs to be a valid GeoJSON object.
```

```bash
{
  "name": "GhsPopComparisonBuildings",
  "layerName": "building_count",
  "bpolys": {
    "type": "Polygon",
    "coordinates": [
      [
        [
          8.674092292785645,
          49.40427147224242
        ],
        [
          8.695850372314453,
          49.40427147224242
        ],
        [
          8.695850372314453,
          49.415552187316095
        ],
        [
          8.674092292785645,
          49.415552187316095
        ],
        [
          8.674092292785645,
          49.40427147224242
        ]
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

Now that a `JSON` file exists on disk one can post it with `curl` using following syntax `curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d @FILENAME DESTINATION`.
E.g.

```bash
curl --request POST \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --data @data.json \
    "https://oqt.ohsome.org/api/indicator"
```

> In reality one wants to use a tool to URL encode a valid GeoJSON file for requests. In the next section Python is used to archive this.

Reviewer: * `curl` is capable of doing URL encoding, see [`--data-urlencode`](https://manpages.debian.org/bullseye/curl/curl.1.en.html#data-urlencode)
* Just a suggestion: prevent the phrase _in reality_
```suggestion
Most advanced users use a tool to include a valid GeoJSON file into their requests. The next section shows an example that uses Python to achieve this.
```

## Request Examples using Python and `requests` library

### Request an Indicator for a pre-definied region

#### GET request

```python
from urllib.parse import urlencode
import requests

# Note the question mark (`?`) marking the start of a query string.
url = "https://oqt.ohsome.org/api/indicator?"
parameters = {
    "name": "GhsPopComparisonBuildings",
    "layerName": "building_count",
    "dataset": "regions",
    "featureId": "3",
}

> # Use `urllib.parse.urlencode` to ensure proper URL encoding:
> response = requests.get(url + urlencode(parameters))

Reviewer: Not 100% sure if my assumption is correct, but why do you use `urlencode`? Isn't the built-in tool doing the same? The only difference between `GET` and `POST` requests using the `requests` library is most of the times (for simple APIs) that you replace the `params` argument with `json` or `data`.
```suggestion
response = requests.get(url, params=parameters)
```

Author: Thanks for pointing this out. I change the code accordingly.

assert response.status_code == 200
```

#### POST request

```python
import requests

# Note the *missing* question mark (`?`).
url = "https://oqt.ohsome.org/api/indicator"
parameters = {
    "name": "GhsPopComparisonBuildings",
    "layerName": "building_count",
    "dataset": "regions",
    "featureId": "3",
}
response = requests.post(url, json=parameters)
assert response.status_code == 200
```

> ### Request an Indicator for a pre-definied region

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Request an Indicator for a custom region
```

#### POST request

> Note the using of the `json` library to dump the GeoJSON as string to the parameters.
> URL encoding will be done by the requests library.

Reviewer: Where do you use the `json` library to dump the GeoJSON as string to the parameters?

If you would:
```suggestion
Note the usage of the `json` library to dump the GeoJSON as string to the parameters.
URL encoding will be done by the requests library.
```

Reviewer: The question is still open. I don't think the `json` library is used at all in this document.
